[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The hunt for habitable
planets and intelligent life
in space.
Results from a new
galactic survey
may have narrowed the search.
This is "Gaia News."
A recent study analyzing
the work of the Kepler Space
Telescope and the European Space
Agency's Gaia Space Observatory
found that about half of
sun-like stars in our galaxy
could host Earth-like rocky
planets capable of supporting
liquid water on its surface.
According to NASA, the
conservative estimate
puts that number at about 300
million potentially habitable
worlds in our galaxy.
Jason Wright, Professor of
Astronomy and Astrophysics
at Penn State
University on the study.
>> What this study does, it
takes the final release of all
that Kepler did, the very best
version of the data that's been
worked on for years, and
combines it with precise
properties measured of all of
those stars by the European
Space Agency's Gaia
mission, measured distances
and brightness of
stars very precisely.
And they put all
of this information
together to try
and estimate what
fraction of all
stars in the galaxy
have Earth-like planets
around sun-like stars.
So they've picked a
pretty generous definition
of what makes a
planet Earth-like
and a star star-like,
sun-like, and the temperature
kind of like Earth.
So they're looking
at any planet that's
as small as half of
the size of Earth
to as large as 1 and 1/2
times the size of Earth,
around a wide range of stars.
But all of them at about
the right distance where
if the planets had an atmosphere
like Earth's, it would have
liquid water on the surface.
Now we don't know what fraction
of those are going to have it.
>> Why does water on the
surface of a planet matter?
What's the significance of
finding an Earth-like planet?
>> The Kepler mission was
designed to look for a planet
like Earth.
We're looking for our
context in the universe.
We want to know if there
are other planets out there.
And of course, the
reason is, because we
want to know if
there's life out there.
And what we really
want to know, is
if there's intelligent life
out there that perhaps we
could someday communicate with.
But along the way,
we need to know where
to look and study these things.
And so we're working our way
through the Drake equation.
>> Marc D'Antonio, astronomer
and chief photo and video
analyst for the
Mutual UFO Network,
was excited to hear this news.
>> The most exciting thing is,
that there may be an awful lot
of other Earths out there, an
awful lot of other habitable
worlds just in our galaxy.
If you think about that, that's
really wonderful to know that,
hey, maybe we're not alone.
I personally don't think we are.
In fact, that's, my
book is about the fact
that life in the universe is
the rule, not the exception.
And the bottom line
is, that there's
another one or two trillion
other galaxies besides our own.
Now the numbers just
stagger and boggle the mind.
And it really tells you that
the universe might actually
be teeming with
life, but they just
can't communicate
with each other.
>> Now that we have
this information,
what does this mean
for the search for life
in the universe?
>> Now that we have studies
indicating that there might be
a certain definitive number of
habitable worlds like the Earth
in our galaxy, we would want
to study those worlds to see
if they're not just
rocky like Mercury,
but actually have an
atmosphere like Earth.
So to do that, we have the
James Webb Space Telescope--
--Which is going to
be going up and it'll
be parked about a million miles
away from the Earth in what's
called a Lagrange point.
It's like a parking spot in
space for all the gravity
sums to 0 and you can just sort
of hover with minimal effort
stay in the same spot.
And if it can do
that, then it'll
be able to have a
wonderful vantage
point from which
to start looking
at some of these potential
habitable worlds.
>> This study is just the latest
in the search for life in outer
space.
Scientists around the
world are using every tool
and inventing new ones to
explore our galaxy and beyond.
The James Webb Space Telescope
is scheduled for an October
2021 launch, and
with it, we may just
find the next piece of evidence
to answer the question,
are we alone in the universe.
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."